---
source_pdf: ../eprint_2026_106.pdf
pages: 23
extracted_at: 2026-04-17T12:32:48+00:00
extractor: PyMuPDF (fitz)
reflow: column-aware block ordering
title: "New Quantum Circuits for ECDLP: Breaking Prime ECC in Minutes"
---

# eprint_2026_106

Original title: New Quantum Circuits for ECDLP: Breaking Prime ECC in Minutes

Source PDF: ../eprint_2026_106.pdf

> Extraction note: this is text recovered from the PDF for analysis, not a hand-corrected transcription. The extractor reorders many two-column pages more naturally than a raw text dump, but formulas, figures, footnotes, and dense layouts may still degrade.

## Page 1

New Quantum Circuits for ECDLP: Breaking
Prime Elliptic Curve Cryptography in Minutes

Hyunji Kim1, Kyungbae Jang1, Siyi Wang2, Anubhab Baksi3, Gyeongju
Song1, Hwajeong Seo1 and Anupam Chattopadhyay2∗

1 Division of IT Convergence Engineering, Hansung University, Seoul, South Korea
2 College of Computing and Data Science, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
3 Elektro- och informationsteknik, Lund University, Lund, Sweden
khj1594012@gmail.com, starj1023@gmail.com, siyi002@e.ntu.edu.sg,
anubhab.baksi@eit.lth.se, thdrudwn98@gmail.com, hwajeong84@gmail.com,

anupam@ntu.edu.sg

Abstract.
This paper improves quantum circuits for realizing Shor’s algorithm
on elliptic curves.
We present optimized quantum point addition circuits that
primarily focus on reducing circuit depth, while also taking the qubit count into
consideration. Our implementations significantly reduce circuit depth and achieve
up to 40% improvement in the qubit count - depth product compared to previous
works, including those by M. Roetteler et al. (Asiacrypt’17) and T. Häner et al.
(PQCrypto’20).
Using our quantum circuits, we newly assess the post-quantum security of elliptic
curve cryptography. Under the MAXDEPTH constraint proposed by NIST, which
limits the maximum circuit depth to 240, the maximum depth in our work is 228 for
the P-521 curve (well below this threshold). For the total gate count and full depth
product, a metric defined by NIST for evaluating quantum attack resistance, the
maximum complexity for the same curve is 265, far below the post-quantum security
level 1 requirement of 2157.
Beyond these logical analyses, we estimate the fault-tolerant costs (i.e., at the level
of physical resources) for breaking elliptic curve cryptography. As one of our results,
the P-224 curve (comparable to RSA-2048 in security) can be broken in 34 minutes
using 19.1 million physical qubits, or in 96 minutes using 6.9 million physical qubits
under our two optimization approaches.

Keywords: Shor’s Algorithm · Elliptic Curves · Quantum Cryptanalysis

1
Introduction

Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC) [Kob87] stands as a cornerstone of modern cryptography,
widely adopted for its ability to provide robust security with smaller key sizes than RSA
[RSA78]. Its arithmetic structure over finite fields enables efficient implementations for key
exchange, digital signatures, and other standardized protocols. Widely deployed elliptic
curve standards comprise the NIST P-curves (e.g., P-256 and P-521), Curve25519, and
the Brainpool curves, each targeting a distinct level of cryptographic strength.
The security of ECC relies on the computational hardness of the elliptic curve discrete
logarithm problem (ECDLP). However, the advent of large-scale quantum computers
undermines this hardness, as Shor’s algorithm [Sho94] can solve the ECDLP in polynomial
time, thereby breaking the security of elliptic curves. The same quantum threat also

∗: Corresponding author.

## Page 2

2
New Quantum Circuits for ECDLP: Breaking Prime ECC in Minutes

applies to RSA, whose security is based on the hardness of integer factorization. As a
result of this quantum threat, the research community has been driven to seek quantum
resistant alternatives to existing public key cryptosystems, giving rise to the field now
known as post quantum cryptography (see the NIST competition1).
Alongside the development of post-quantum cryptography, it remains important to
assess the security of deployed public key cryptographic systems.
From a quantum
cryptanalysis perspective, it is natural to ask how costly it would be to break ECC.
Accordingly, several studies have been conducted to evaluate the quantum resources required
for breaking prime field ECC using Shor’s algorithm. Proos and Zalka [PZ03] presented
the first detailed analysis of Shor’s algorithm applied to elliptic curves. Building upon
this groundwork, Roetteler et al. [RNSL17] presented a comprehensive implementation of
Shor’s algorithm for ECC, establishing a solid foundation for subsequent quantum resource
analyses. Following this, Häner et al. [HJN+20] significantly improved efficiency through
refined quantum circuit designs and further analyzed trade-offs across various metrics.
Based on the quantum circuits from [HJN+20], Gouzien et al. [GRLR+23] presented
physical-level optimizations for breaking elliptic curves. As a side note, studies on binary
field ECC [BBvHL20, TT23, JSB+25] and Ed25519 [HZH+25] have also been conducted.
In this paper, we contribute to this body of work by presenting new quantum circuits
for breaking ECC. We estimate the logical resources required to break ECC, including
quantum gates, the number of qubits, and circuit depth (the number of sequential gate
layers). Furthermore, we analyze physical costs such as runtime and the number of physical
qubits required for error correction under fault-tolerant computation.

Contribution

This paper presents new quantum circuits for elliptic curve computations, prioritizing
circuit depth while also considering qubit usage. We propose two types of quantum
point addition circuits (the main cost contributor in Shor’s algorithm): qubit-optimized
and depth-optimized versions. Our depth-optimized version achieves the lowest circuit
depth with additional ancilla qubits. In terms of the product of qubit count and full
depth, our qubit-optimized version achieves a 37%–40% improvement compared to the
previous best result by Häner et al. [HJN+20]. Further, we reduce the total gate count by
52%–54%. These results are achieved through improvements at the following component
and architecture levels:

• We present depth- and qubit-optimized modular multiplications (Section 3.2) based
on the Montgomery algorithm. For the depth-optimized multiplication, we employ a
Quantum Carry-Save Adder (QCSA) [KLJ+25] and reformulate the Montgomery
reduction into an alternative form that enables the use of the QCSA. In contrast, our
qubit-optimized multiplication performs additions sequentially without the QCSA.

• We develop quantum inversion circuits (Section 3.3.1) based on the binary Extended
Euclidean Algorithm (EEA). Our inversion circuits introduce a low-depth round
operation with unconditional execution and a postponed modular reduction strategy.
For the depth-optimized inversion, the QCSA is employed for modular reduction,
while for the qubit-optimized inversion, it is replaced with sequential controlled
additions to reduce the number of qubits.

• We construct quantum point addition circuits at the architecture level (Section 3.4),
which consist of multiple components such as addition, multiplication, and division.
For inner controlled arithmetic, we adopt a control-qubit copying method and merge
two operations in the final step into a single operation.

1https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/post-quantum-cryptography/post-quantum-cryptography-sta
ndardization/call-for-proposals

## Page 3

H. Kim et al.
3

By constructing Shor’s attack using our point addition circuits, we estimate the required
quantum resources for breaking elliptic curve cryptography (Section 5.1). Unsurprisingly,
ECC does not satisfy NIST post-quantum security [NIS22, pp. 15–17] under our anal-
ysis (see Table 7) and can be attacked with significantly lower depth than the NIST
MAXDEPTH [NIS22, p. 17].
Further, we provide fault-tolerant costs (to be more realistic) by estimating the required
number of physical qubits and the actual runtime (Section 5.2) in the Noisy Intermediate-
Scale Quantum (NISQ) era. This paper shows that ECC can be broken within 26 minutes
to 10 hours, depending on the curve field size and the optimization strategy (see Table 6).

2
Background

2.1
Prime Elliptic Curves

For a prime p > 3, elliptic curves over the finite field Fp are typically represented in short
Weierstrass form. Specifically, an elliptic curve over Fp is given by E(Fp) :y2 = x3 + ax + b
where constants a, b ∈Fp, together with a point at infinity ∞. For two distinct finite
points P1 = (x1, y1) and P2 = (x2, y2) on E(Fp), where P2 ̸= ±P1 and neither point is ∞,
P3 = P1 + P2 = (x3, y3) is given by x3 = λ2 −x1 −x2,
y3 = (x1 −x3)λ −y1,
with λ =
(y2−y1)/(x2−x1). In this representation (affine coordinates), point addition is implemented
using field operations over Fp, including addition, multiplication, and division.

2.2
Elliptic Curve Cryptography vs. Shor’s Algorithm

With the advent of quantum computing, the hardness assumption of the ECDLP is
fundamentally challenged. Shor’s algorithm [Sho94] can solve this problem efficiently
on a quantum computer, thereby threatening the security of ECC. The algorithm takes
advantage of quantum parallelism and the Quantum Fourier Transform (QFT), which
together enable exponential speedup over classical methods. Its quantum procedure can
be summarized as follows:

Quantum Register Preparation:
Initialize two quantum registers, k and ℓ, each consisting
of n + 1 qubits, along with a third register for group element computations. All registers
start in the |0⟩state, where the third register is initialized to |O⟩, the elliptic curve identity:
|0⟩⊗n+1 ⊗|0⟩⊗n+1 ⊗|O⟩. Next, apply Hadamard gates to every qubit in the first two
registers, creating a uniform superposition over all possible values of k and ℓ:

2n+1−1
X

2n+1−1
X

1
2n+1

k=0

ℓ=0
|k⟩|ℓ⟩|O⟩.

Oracle Mapping (Point Addition):
For each pair (k, ℓ), compute the linear combination
of the two base points in the third register, yielding

1
2n+1
X

k,ℓ
|k⟩|ℓ⟩|O⟩−→
1
2n+1
X

k,ℓ
|k⟩|ℓ⟩|[k]P + [ℓ]Q⟩.

Quantum Fourier Transform (QFT):
A QFT is applied on both the k and ℓregisters,
mapping the computational basis to the frequency domain. This transformation is essential
for period finding:

2n+1−1
X

|x⟩−→
1
2n+1

y=0
e2πixy/2n+1|y⟩.

## Page 4

4
New Quantum Circuits for ECDLP: Breaking Prime ECC in Minutes

|0⟩(k0)
H
•
· · ·
· · ·

QFT2n+1
|0⟩(k1)
H
•
· · ·
· · ·
...

|0⟩(kn)
H
· · ·
•
· · ·

|0⟩(ℓ0)
H
· · ·
•
· · ·

QFT2n+1
|0⟩(ℓ1)
H
· · ·
•
· · ·
...

|0⟩(ℓn)
H
· · ·
· · ·
•

|O⟩
+P
+[2]P
· · ·
+[2n]P
+Q
+[2]Q
· · ·
+[2n]Q
/

Figure 1: Circuit of Shor’s algorithm for solving ECDLP.

Measurement and Post-processing:
Measure the first two registers to obtain output
values, which are used in classical post-processing to recover the discrete logarithm m.
The third register is unmeasured and discarded at the end.
Figure 1 shows a schematic of this quantum circuit, including initialization, oracle
application, QFT, and measurement stages. Shor’s algorithm can also be implemented
using a single control qubit via the semi-classical Fourier transform [GN96], and this
approach is adopted in our work (see [GN96] for details). It is important to note that
Ekerå [Eke19] showed (heuristically) that using the semi-classical Fourier transform reduces
the single-run success probability of Shor’s algorithm for the discrete logarithm problem to
about 60%-82%, and proposed two strategies to recover a high success rate (above 99%):
slightly increasing the quantum computation and performing a single limited search in the
classical post-processing, or performing two limited searches in the classical post-processing.
In this work, the latter setting is assumed throughout our analysis without increasing the
quantum cost (for details, see [Eke19]).

2.3
Quantum Gates

Figure 2 illustrates the quantum gates employed to construct quantum circuits in this
work, where the symbols ‘¬’, ‘⊕’ and ‘∧’ denote the NOT, XOR, and AND operations
respectively. The Hadamard (H) gate (Figure 2(a)) creates superposition by assigning
equal probability amplitudes to the |0⟩and |1⟩states. The X gate (Figure 2(b)) flips a
qubit state between |0⟩and |1⟩, corresponding to the classical NOT operation (¬). The
CNOT gate (Figure 2(c)) flips the target qubit (b) conditioned on the control qubit (a)
being in the |1⟩state, realizing the classical XOR operation (⊕).
The Toffoli gate (Figure 2(d)) flips the target qubit (c) only when both control qubits
(a and b) are in the |1⟩state, corresponding to the classical AND operation (∧). Due
to its high quantum cost, various optimized constructions of the Toffoli gate have been
proposed [AMM+13, Sel13a]. In this work, we adopt a decomposition consisting of 8
Clifford gates and 7 T gates, yielding a full depth of 8 with a T-depth of 4 [AMM+13].

AND Gates
Replacing Toffoli gates with AND gates [Gid18, JNRV19] can further reduce
the T-depth. To the best of our knowledge, the most efficient AND gate constructions
were proposed by Jaques et al. [JNRV19], and the corresponding circuits are illustrated
in Figures 2(e) and 2(f). The AND gate is decomposed into 11 Clifford gates and 4 T
gates, achieving a T-depth of 1 and a full depth of 8, while requiring one ancilla qubit. Its
reverse operation, the AND† gate, consists of 7 Clifford gates and a single measurement

## Page 5

Figure 2: Quantum gates.

gate, providing a notable advantage in reverse operations. Note that the target qubit of
the AND gate must be initialized in a clean state |0⟩, in contrast to the Toffoli gate, whose
target qubit does not require such initialization.

3
Quantum Circuit Construction for Elliptic Curves

In this section, we present quantum modular arithmetic circuits for Shor’s attack on
elliptic curve cryptography over prime fields. Building on these circuits, we introduce
point addition circuits, considering both depth-optimized and qubit-optimized designs.
Throughout our implementations, we adopt the AND gates presented in [JNRV19] (see
Figures 2(e) and 2(f)). When the AND gates are not applicable in our implementations
(such as in certain steps of Draper’s adder [DKRS04]), we instead use the Toffoli gate
decomposition from [AMM+13] (Figure 2(d)).

3.1
Modular Addition

Elliptic curve arithmetic operates on n-bit integers modulo a prime p, and efficient
implementations of addition are crucial. We employ the in-place and out-of-place Draper
adders [DKRS04], which are effective in reducing depth. Modular addition is implemented
using a combination of these adders, as illustrated in Figure 3. After an addition, the
modulus p is subtracted, followed by a conditional addition of p to keep the result in
[0, p −1], as in [HJN+20].

|x⟩
|y⟩
−p
+p
|(x + y) mod p⟩
|0⟩
•
|0⟩

Figure 3: Modular addition (used in [HJN+20] and this paper).

Controlled Addition
Controlled addition is required for the point addition circuit to
realize an in-place structure (see Figure 8). There are two approaches to controlled addition,
reconstructing the adder or using the copying method, as shown in Figures 4(a) and 4(b),

## Page 6

6
New Quantum Circuits for ECDLP: Breaking Prime ECC in Minutes

respectively. In both [RNSL17] and [HJN+20], the first approach (Figure 4(a)) is adopted,
which promotes the CNOT gates used except for the carry-propagation to Toffoli gates. In
contrast, we adopt the second approach (Figure 4(b)), which copies the operand to ancilla
qubits in a clean state |0⟩conditioned on the control qubit. An uncontrolled addition is
then performed without incurring additional Toffoli gates. The reason for this choice is
the availability of sufficient ancilla qubits (in the idle state) in our implementation. We
describe this in Section 3.2.1.

|ctrl⟩
•
•
|ctrl⟩

|ctrl⟩
•
|ctrl⟩
|a⟩
Add

|a⟩

|b⟩
|b + a⟩

|b⟩
|b + a⟩

(a) Reconstructing addition.

(b) Copying followed by uncontrolled addition.

Figure 4: Comparison of two controlled addition methods.

3.2
Modular Multiplication

Both [RNSL17] and [HJN+20] adopted the Montgomery algorithm for quantum modular
multiplication, however, they constructed different circuit structures. Montgomery multi-
plication can be divided into two steps: general multiplication and Montgomery reduction.
Figures 5(a) and 5(b) illustrate the quantum circuits for modular multiplication proposed
in [RNSL17] and [HJN+20], respectively.
The authors of [RNSL17] presented a bit-level Montgomery multiplication circuit,
where each round performs a controlled addition for the general multiplication (i.e.,
c(x) + ai(x)b(x), i = 0, . . . , n −1) and a controlled addition for the Montgomery reduction
(i.e., c(x) + c0(x)p(x)). Note that ai(x) and c0(x) each serve as a control qubit.
In contrast, the authors of [HJN+20] implemented a word-level Montgomery multipli-
cation (with word size w), given in Algorithm 1(a), using a quantum lookup table (called
windowing arithmetic). For the word size w, the w-qubit value ai(x) (i = 0, . . . , s −1,
where s = n/w) is multiplied by b(x), resulting in a multiplication of size w × n. Thus,
for the general multiplication, w controlled additions of n-qubit operands are performed.
For the Montgomery reduction, the least significant w qubits of c(x) (i.e., cw(x)) are used
as the index for the quantum lookup table, which then loads the corresponding multiple
of the modulus p(x) (i.e., M(x)p(x)). As a result, the w controlled additions for the
Montgomery reduction are replaced by a single uncontrolled addition with the quantum
lookup table. It is important to note that although the w controlled additions are replaced
to a single uncontrolled addition, the cost of constructing the quantum lookup table must
be considered. We discuss this trade-off in detail in Section 3.2.2.

3.2.1
QCSA-based Montgomery Multiplication

In this work, we present a word-level (of size w) Montgomery multiplication using the Quan-
tum Carry-Save Adder (QCSA) [KLJ+25], which is similar to the approach in [HJN+20]
but differs in key aspects. Depending on the word size w, Montgomery multiplication is
performed between each input ai(x) (0 ≤i ≤s −1, s = n/w) and b(x). Here, the sizes of
ai(x) and b(x) are w and n, respectively.
Figure 5(c) illustrates a single loop (iterated s times) of our QCSA-based Montgomery
multiplication (C denotes a copy operation). The left and right sides of the dashed line
correspond to the general multiplication and the Montgomery reduction, respectively. In
our implementation, we employ the QCSA, a quantum adder optimized for multi-operand
addition (e.g., a + b + c corresponds to a three-operand addition).

## Page 7

H. Kim et al.
7

|a0⟩
•
· · ·
|a0⟩

|a1⟩
•
· · ·
|a1⟩
...
|an−1⟩
· · ·
•
|an−1⟩

· · ·

|b⟩

|b⟩

|0⟩

· · ·

|c1 · · · cn−1⟩

|0⟩
•
•
· · ·
•
|c0⟩

|g⟩
· · ·
|g⟩

|0⟩
•
· · ·
/

|0⟩
•
· · ·
/
...
|0⟩
· · ·
•
/

(a) Bit-level (in [RNSL17]).

|a0⟩
•
· · ·
|a0⟩

|a1⟩
•
· · ·
|a1⟩
...
|ak⟩
· · ·
•
|ak⟩

|0⟩

|0⟩⊗(n+k)
· · ·
Lookup T[ck]
•
Unlookup T[ck]
|0⟩

(b) Word-level and windowed (in [HJN+20]).

(c) Word-level and QCSA-based (this paper, Algorithm 1(b)).

Figure 5: Montgomery multiplication circuits.

Input Setting
As a preparatory step, we prepare w registers, each consisting of n qubits,
and store b(x) in each register based on the corresponding control qubits (i.e., ai(x)) using
AND gates2. Each of the w registers is set to b(x) (if ai = |1⟩) or to |0⟩(if ai = |0⟩). To
improve the parallelization of AND gates in this step, we copy (C) the input ai(x) into
additional ancilla qubits (acopy) using CNOT gates. Assuming the input is not copied,
only w AND gates can be executed in parallel; however, if l instances of the input ai(x)
are prepared using the copy method, lw gates can be performed in parallel. Depending on
the input ai, each of the w registers is loaded with b(x) if ai = |1⟩, or with |0⟩if ai = |0⟩.

Multi-Operand Addition Using QCSA
Using the prepared inputs (i.e., the w registers),
we perform multi-operand addition with the QCSA, which computes the result of ai(x)b(x).
The QCSA efficiently adds multiple operands without requiring carry propagation at
each stage. It generates partial sum and carry values, enabling multiple additions to be
performed in parallel. This process continues until only two operands remain (QCSA
in Figure 5(c)), which are then added using a regular adder (e.g., ripple-carry or carry-

2The control qubits are ai(x) and b(x), and the w registers serve as the target qubits.

## Page 8

8
New Quantum Circuits for ECDLP: Breaking Prime ECC in Minutes

lookahead adder) with carry propagation. For the final two-operand addition (Add3 in
Figure 5(c)), we adopt Draper’s out-of-place adder [DKRS04].
In contrast to [RNSL17, HJN+20], where sequential quantum additions are designed
for general multiplication a(x)b(x), a low-depth parallelized structure is constructed in our
implementation utilizing the QCSA.

Reuse of Ancilla Qubits
The QCSA is effective for reducing circuit depth, but it requires
more ancilla qubits compared to the sequential use of two-operand adders. To balance
circuit depth and qubit count, we initialize the ancilla qubits used in the QCSA to the clean
state by applying its reverse operation (QCSA†). The initialized ancilla qubits are then
reused in subsequent QCSA. In the same context, we reverse the input setting operation
using AND† gates (Set input†) to reuse the w registers by initializing them. Recall that we
adopt Figure 4(b) for controlled addition, which requires ancilla qubits. Since the ancilla
qubits for our multiplication are available, we reuse them for the controlled additions.

Alternative Formulation of Montgomery Reduction
After the general multiplication,
the Montgomery reduction is performed, corresponding to the right side of the dashed
line in Figure 5(c). We utilize the QCSA for the Montgomery reduction as well. To do
this, we modify the word-level Montgomery multiplication into an alternative formula-
tion. We reformulate Algorithm 1(a) into Algorithm 1(b) by precomputing the reduction
factor d(x) ←(p′
0(x) mod xw)p(x) (line 2 of Algorithm 1(b)). This allows us to combine
M(x) ←cw(x)p′
w(x) mod xw and c(x) + M(x)p(x), which correspond to lines 4 and 5 of
Algorithm 1(a), into a single expression c(x) + cw(x)d(x), which corresponds to line 5
of Algorithm 1(b). Note that d(x) can be precomputed classically. Thus, similar to the
general multiplication ai(x)b(x), we apply the QCSA to the multiplication cw(x)d(x) as
well. Depending on the input cw(x), the precomputed reduction factor d(x) is loaded into
the w registers. Then, the result of the multiplication cw(x)d(x) is computed using the
QCSA and Draper’s out-of-place adder.
In the final step, a logical shift that requires no quantum resources (/2w in Figure 5(c))
is performed on the result c(x). Then, the reverse operations of the QCSA and the input
setting are applied. Figure 5(c) illustrates a single loop of our Montgomery multiplication,
which is iterated s times depending on the word size (n = sw).

Algorithm 1: Word-level Montgomery multiplication (of size n = sw) and its equivalent
formulation (this paper).
(a) Word-level Montgomery Multiplication.

(b) Equivalent formulation.

Input: a(x), b(x), p(x), p′
w(x)
Output: c(x) = a(x)b(x)r−1(x) mod p(x)

Input: a(x), b(x), p(x), p′
w(x)
Output: c(x) = a(x)b(x)r−1(x) mod p(x)

1: c(x) ←0
2: for i = 0 to s −1 do
3:
c(x) ←c(x) + ai(x)b(x)
4:
M(x) ←cw(x)p′
w(x) mod xw

1: c(x) ←0
2: d(x) ←(p′
w(x) mod xw)p(x)
3: for i = 0 to s −1 do
4:
c(x) ←c(x) + ai(x)b(x)
5:
c(x) ←c(x) + cw(x)d(x)
6:
c(x) ←c(x)/xw

5:
c(x) ←c(x) + M(x)p(x)
6:
c(x) ←c(x)/xw

7: end for
8: return c(x)

7: end for
8: return c(x)

Table 1 presents the quantum resources required for modular multiplication in [HJN+20]
and in this work. We exclude [RNSL17] from the comparison, as [HJN+20] is a follow-
up work that reports improved performance. Due to a lower bound estimation issue
in [HJN+20] (see Section 4 for details), our comparisons are based on reimplemented

3Note that the connected dots represent operands for out-of-place addition, not controlled addition.

## Page 9

H. Kim et al.
9

versions of their quantum circuits. Similarly, the work by Gouzien et al. [GRLR+23] is
excluded from the comparison because it is affected by the same issue as [HJN+20], since
their implementation is based on that of [HJN+20].
Both [RNSL17] and [HJN+20] compute the result by accumulating the intermediate
results into the same register (i.e., c(x), see Figures 5(a) and 5(b)). In contrast, we
parallelize the quantum additions in Montgomery multiplication by using the QCSA
(thanks to Algorithm 1(b)) with additional ancilla qubits. Consequently, we achieve the
lowest circuit depth, at the cost of a high qubit count. In this trade-off, our multiplication
achieves a performance improvement of approximately 44 −80% in terms of the qubit
count - full depth product, compared to the depth-optimized multiplication in [HJN+20]
(the previous best result), as shown in Table 1.

Table 1: Comparison of the quantum resources required for multiplication.

3.2.2
Quantum Lookup Table vs. Quantum Circuit Synthesis

Both [RNSL17] and [HJN+20] perform the general multiplication a(x)b(x) using sequential
additions. However, the key difference is that [HJN+20] uses a quantum lookup table for
the Montgomery reduction, whereas [RNSL17] does not. For the Montgomery reduction
in [HJN+20], depending on the size of the quantum lookup table w, w sequential quantum
additions are replaced with two quantum lookup tables (one for reversal) and one quantum
addition. It is important to note that, in some cases, replacing arithmetic with a quantum
lookup table (as done by the authors in [HJN+20]) can be more efficient than synthesizing it
into quantum circuits. As one example, there is no doubt that using a quantum lookup table
to replace quantum point additions at the level of Shor’s algorithm is effective, given the high
cost of point additions. However, if the logic or arithmetic replaced by a quantum lookup
table can instead be implemented through circuit synthesis with low quantum resource
overhead, circuit synthesis is preferable (e.g., the AES S-box [LL25, JNRV19, JBK+22]).
We believe that our quantum circuit for the Montgomery reduction (which consists of w
quantum additions based on Algorithm 1(b)) using the QCSA is more efficient than using
a quantum lookup table. The depth of a lookup table is determined by the window size
w. For a window size of w = 8, the full depth of a quantum lookup table with fan-out is
approximately 7000. Under the same condition, our approach yields a full depth of 386 at
n = 256.

## Page 10

10
New Quantum Circuits for ECDLP: Breaking Prime ECC in Minutes

3.2.3
Qubit-Optimized Version

In addition to the QCSA-based multiplication (depth-optimized version), we also consider
a qubit-optimized version. In this version, the general multiplication follows the sequential
controlled addition structure of [HJN+20], while the Montgomery reduction is implemented
using sequential controlled additions (whereas [HJN+20] employs a quantum lookup table).
Our qubit-optimized version achieves an improvement of approximately 64 −67% in the
qubit count – full depth product, compared to the depth-optimized multiplication in
[HJN+20] (the previous best result; see Table 1).

3.3
Modular Division

This section presents our quantum division circuit that restructures the inversion process.
For inversion, we adopt the binary Extended Euclidean Algorithm (EEA) and Kaliski’s
algorithm [Kal02]. This approach was adopted in [RNSL17], and further improved in
[HJN+20].

3.3.1
Inversion Using Binary EEA

The binary EEA extends the classical Euclidean algorithm by computing not only gcd(x, p)
but also integer coefficients s and t that satisfy Bézout’s identity: sx + tp = gcd(x, p).
When gcd(x, p) = 1, which holds for all nonzero elements in a prime field, the coefficient s
satisfies s ≡x−1 (mod p). Hence, the modular inverse of x can be directly obtained from
this identity.

Full-Circuit Execution without Conditionals
We adopt the swap-based Kaliski algorithm
specified in Algorithm 2, a refined version of the binary EEA presented in [HJN+20, Figure
7]. The round operations proceed by updating two pairs of integer variables, (u, r) and
(v, s), which are initialized to (p, 0) and (x, 1), respectively. At each round, the variables
(u, r, v, s) are updated according to the values of u and v. This process continues until
v = 0, at which point u = 1 and s = p, and r contains a pseudo-inverse of x. A key
difference in our implementation is the removal of the check step for whether v = 0,
resulting in unconditional execution.
Formally (or classically), each round is executed only if the condition vi ̸= 0 holds,
and the state vi is updated according to Kaliski’s algorithm. In [HJN+20], the round
operation performs conditional checks over the range n ≤i < 2n to determine whether the
state needs to be updated (for details, refer to Section 4). In contrast, we execute all 2n
rounds without any conditional checks (at low cost). Under the unconditional execution,
the variable r continues to be doubled even after v = 0. The 2n doublings caused by this
process result in the value being represented on 2n qubits. Although this may appear
counterintuitive, this yields the correct inverse rather than a pseudo-inverse. We discuss
this in detail in Section 3.3.1.

Low-Depth Round Operation
The round operation is structurally similar to that in
[HJN+20]; however, we improve the circuit depth by enhancing parallelism. Figure 6
illustrates a round operation of our inversion quantum circuit. We copy (C) the control
qubit a (which checks the state of u and v) into a sufficient number of ancilla qubits
(acopy) and parallelize all controlled operations that use the control qubit a. Similarly,
the operands u and r are also copied to ancilla qubits (i.e., ucopy and rcopy), and the
uncontrolled addition and subtraction with copying are implemented (see Figure 4(a)).
Note that the ancilla qubits used for copying (acopy, ucopy, rcopy) are borrowed from the idle
qubits reserved for the subsequent multiplication following the inversion (a characteristic
of division); thus, this does not increase the overall qubit count.

## Page 11

H. Kim et al.
11

Algorithm 2: Kaliski’s algorithm based on swaps (equivalent formulation by [HJN+20]).
Input: u, v, r, s
Output: Pseudo-inverse r

9:
if u and v both odd then
10:
v ←v −u
11:
s ←r + s
12:
end if
13:
v ←v/2
14:
r ←2 · r
15:
if bswap then
16:
swap u and v
17:
swap r and s
18:
end if
19: end while
20: return r

1: while v ̸= 0 do
2:
bswap ←false
3:
if u even and v odd, or u and v
4:
both odd and u > v then
5:
swap u and v
6:
swap r and s
7:
bswap ←true
8:
end if

Figure 6: Round operation of inversion (one round).

Postponed Modular Reduction Strategy
For the subtraction (v −u, Line 10), addition
(r+s, Line 11), halving (v/2, Line 13), and doubling (2·r, Line 14) operations in Algorithm 2,
we do not perform modular reduction (mod p) immediately after each operation. Instead,
we postpone these modular reductions by accumulating the results into a 2n-bit inverse.
Thanks to this strategy, the cost of modular reduction is excluded from each round and
instead incurred only at the final stage4, where it can be performed efficiently using the
QCSA5 in the depth-optimized version. Note that, in our qubit-optimized version, the
QCSA is replaced with sequential controlled additions.
One might wonder about the possibility of further postponing the modular reductions
and performing them together after division. However, this would increase the size of the
multiplication (i.e., y · x−1) to n × 2n, which increases the cost; therefore, we do not adopt
this approach.

Omission of Pseudo-Inverse Correction
In [HJN+20], the pseudo-inverse is given by
x−1 · 2−n+k (mod p), where k denotes the number of activated round updates (i.e., the
rounds that are actually executed). Accordingly, the result is scaled by 22n−k (mod p)
to recover the correct Montgomery inverse, x−1 · 2n (mod p). The 2n −k doublings are
performed with the counter holding the information on the number of activated rounds
(k) in the inversion, which incurs additional costs. On the other hand, since our round
operations are unconditional (see Section 3.3.1), the resulting value is already given as
x−1 · 2n (i.e., x−1 · 2−n · 22n), which is in Montgomery inverse form.

4The reduction consists of constant additions controlled by the upper n bits, leveraging the generalized
Mersenne structure [S+99].
5The ancilla qubits for the QCSA are borrowed from the subsequent multiplication.

## Page 12

12
New Quantum Circuits for ECDLP: Breaking Prime ECC in Minutes

3.3.2
Quantum Circuit for Division

The division is given by λ = y · x−1, which consists of one inversion, one multiplication,
and two modular reductions. Figure 7 illustrates the quantum circuit diagram for the
division. The output of the inversion is used as the input to the multiplication, and the
division result λ is obtained via modular reduction from n+w bits to n bits. Note that λ is
conditionally stored in the result register depending on the control qubit q, after which the
reverse operations of the modular reduction, multiplication, and inversion are performed.

Table 2 compares the quantum resources required for division (including its reverse).
We compare our results with the previous best result, the depth-optimized division
in [HJN+20]. In terms of the product of full depth and qubit count (FD-M), our qubit-
optimized division achieves an improvement of 35–38%. Our depth-optimized division
achieves the lowest circuit depth, but it provides degraded FD-M performance. This is
because depth-optimized multiplication within the division increases the total number of
qubits, while the overall depth is dominated by the inversion, resulting in a higher FD-M
cost. Nevertheless, the depth-optimized division is retained as an option, as it provides
the lowest circuit depth.

|y⟩

Figure 7: Modular division.

Table 2: Comparison of the quantum resources required for division.

## Page 13

H. Kim et al.
13

3.4
Point Addition

In Shor’s algorithm, point addition P(x1, y1)+P(x2, y2) is performed if the control qubit q
is 1; otherwise the input P1(x1, y1) is preserved (i.e., conditional). Algorithm 3 and Figure 8
show our in-place point addition circuit, adapted from [HJN+20] with two modifications
(Sections 3.4 and 3.4). As shown in Figure 8, the point addition circuit is composed of
several arithmetic subroutines, including additions, two divisions (D), multiplication (M)
and a negation. Here, S−and M + denote the square-then-subtract and multiply-then-add
operations, respectively, and Neg denotes modular negation, (−a) mod p = (p −a) mod p.

Control Qubit Copying
For the point addition in Figure 8, three subtractions, two
divisions, and one negation are performed depending on the control qubit q.
These
controlled operations share a single control qubit, which causes a significant increase
in circuit depth. To address this depth overhead, we copy q into the ancilla registers
for multiplication and inversion (Manc and Ianc) to parallelize the controlled operations
(Algorithm 3, Steps 2, 12, and 14). Because these ancilla qubits remain idle, we use them
as storage registers for copying the control qubit.

Merging Technique
We optimize the final steps of [HJN+20], which consists of an
uncontrolled subtraction followed by a controlled addition. In [HJN+20, Figure 9], a
subtraction of 2x2 is first performed on x1 (uncontrolled), followed by a controlled addition
of x2 (i.e., if q = 1, then x1 = x1 −x2; otherwise, x1 = x1 −2x2). In our implementation,
these steps are merged into a single controlled subtraction. Recall that an ancilla register
storing the operand is used for our controlled addition (see Figure 4(b)). We set the
ancilla register to 2x2 if q = 0 or to x2 if q = 1, and then perform only one uncontrolled
subtraction (Step 15 in Algorithm 3).

Algorithm 3: Quantum circuit of in-place point addition.

Classical input: A fixed point P2(x2, y2) and a prime p.
Quantum input: A control qubit q, a point P1(x1, y1) on the elliptic curve, ancilla qubits Ianc
for inversion, and ancilla qubits Manc for multiplication.
Output: P3(x3, y3) if q = 1, P1(x1, y1) if q = 0, and all the clean ancilla qubits.

1: x1 ←Const_Sub(x2, x1)
▷x1 = x1 −x2
2: Ianc ←Copy(q, Ianc)
▷Copy q to Ianc
3: y1 ←Ctrl_Sub(Ianc, y2, y1)
▷y1 = y1 −q · y2
4: λ = Ctrl_Div(Ianc, x1, y1)
▷λ = y1/x1
5: y1 = Mul(x1, λ)
▷y1 = x1 · λ to clear y1
6: x1 ←Const_Add(3x2, x1)
▷x1 = x1 + 3 · x2
7: Ianc ←Copy(λ, Ianc)
▷Copy λ to Ianc
8: t0 ←Sqr(λ, Ianc)
▷t0 = λ · λ
9: x1 ←Sub(t0, x1)
▷x1 = x1 −t0
10: t1 ←Mul(x1, λ)
▷t1 = x1 · λ
11: y1 ←Add(t1, y1)
▷y1 = y1 + t1
12: Ianc ←Copy(q, Ianc)
▷Copy q to Ianc
13: λ ←Ctrl_Div(Ianc, x1, y1)
▷λ = 0
14: Manc ←Copy(q, Manc)
▷Copy q to Manc
15: x1 ←Ctrl_Const_Sub(Manc, q · x2 + ¯q · 2x2, x1)
▷x1 = x1 −(q · x2 + ¯q · 2x2)
16: y3 ←Ctrl_Const_Sub(Ianc, y2, y1)
▷y3 = y1 −q · y2
17: x3 ←Neg(Manc, x1, p)
▷x3 = −x1 mod p

Table 3 shows the quantum resources required for point addition. Our implementations
achieve the lowest circuit depth with a reasonable increase in the number of qubits. In terms
of the product of qubit count and full depth (FD-M), our qubit-optimized version achieves
37% −−40% improvement while using fewer quantum gates (see also Table 4) compared to

## Page 14

14
New Quantum Circuits for ECDLP: Breaking Prime ECC in Minutes

the previous best result, the depth-optimized version of [HJN+20]. Our depth-optimized
version achieves the lowest circuit depth. However, it exhibits similar FD–M performance
for n = 192, 224, and 256, and degraded performance for the remaining parameters. As we
pointed out in Section 3.3.2, this is because our depth-optimized multiplication consumes
a high number of qubits, but the overall cost of division is determined by the inversion.

|0⟩(Manc)

Figure 8: In-place point addition (Algorithm 3, modified from [HJN+20, Figure 9] by us).

Table 3: Comparison of the quantum resources required for point addition.

3.5
Windowing Technique

In Shor’s algorithm, a total of 2n+2 conditional point additions are required, each controlled
by q (see Figure 1). The windowing technique presented in [GE21] groups the control
qubits into w-qubit registers, where w denotes the window size. These registers serve as
addresses to look up the precomputed points T, T + [1]P2, T + [2]P2, . . . , T + [2w −1]P2 in
superposition (with a fixed point T to avoid infinity). As a result, the windowed approach
only needs 2 · ⌈(n + 1)/w⌉point additions (i.e., one point addition per window), thereby
saving w −1 additions in each window. Unsurprisingly, the choice of the window size w
involves a trade-off. For a window size w, each lookup table requires (2w−1 −1) Toffoli
gates. Hence, the optimal window size must be chosen to minimize Shor’s cost (see Section
5.1).

Signed Point Addition
As described in [HJN+20], a slight modification is required to
integrate the windowing technique into point addition. A single point addition involves
three signed lookups for the point P2(x2, y2) (i.e., (x2, y2), 3x2, and (q · x2 + ¯q · 2x2, y2))

## Page 15

H. Kim et al.
15

and three reverse lookups to reuse ancilla qubits, for a total of six lookups. Following
[HJN+20, Figure 10], we employ a signed point addition to handle negative points (i.e.,
−P = (x, −y)). Using only w −1 qubits for the lookup table address b in the windowing
technique, with the most significant bit bw−1 serving as a sign bit, reduces the lookup
table range by half. Let b = bw−12w−1 + b0 with b0 ∈[0, 2w−1 −1], and interpret the
signed value as b −2w−1 as in [HJN+20]. Therefore, we look up [b0]P when bw−1 = 1, and
otherwise query [(2w−1 −b0)]P and negate it to obtain the signed point [(b0 −2w−1)]P.

4
Reimplementation of HJNRS (PQCrypto’20) ECC

In the ECC implementations by Hänner, Jaques, Naehrig, Roetteler and Soeken in
PQCrypto’20 [HJN+20], the quantum circuits and resource estimations were carried out
using Microsoft’s quantum programming tool, Q# [Mic20]. However, as noted in their
open-source project6 and in the second author’s thesis [Jaq23], the version of Microsoft
Q# available at that time had issues with lower bound estimation (which have since been
addressed in subsequent releases).
In this part, we provide an in-depth analysis of [HJN+20] and report the correct
quantum resource requirements by porting their quantum circuits to ProjectQ [SHT18].
In our analysis, the most critical errors arise from unrealizable parallelization of circuit
operations and from qubits that are ignored in the resource counting. To correct the
lower bound estimates in [HJN+20], we reimplement the core modules, following their
algorithmic structure while keeping the depth and qubit usage within a reasonable range.

Observation
The lower bound estimation issues are observed in the depth-optimized
version of [HJN+20] rather than in the qubit-optimized version. In [Jaq23], the author also
points out that this issue is evident in the depth-optimized version, while it is negligible in
the qubit-optimized version. The issue is particularly observed in controlled arithmetic
operations.
For the controlled addition in their depth-optimized version, [HJN+20, Table 3] reports
qubit counts that differ from uncontrolled addition only by a constant additive term (e.g.,
5n−3.7 vs. 5n−0.8), although an additional n qubits are required for fan-out (i.e., copying
the control qubit to multiple ancilla qubits).
Another issue is observed in their Montgomery multiplication. In Figure 5(b), the
controlled additions for the general multiplication are performed sequentially. For the
modular reduction, two quantum lookup tables (including the reverse lookup table) and an
uncontrolled addition are performed. This pair of steps is iterated sequentially according
to the multiplication size n and the lookup table size w.
Let us manually calculate the circuit depth of the Montgomery multiplication for
n = 256 with a window size of w = 8 (thus, the word size is 8 and the number of windows
is 32), as chosen by the authors of [HJN+20]. They employ Draper’s in-place adder,
where each controlled addition of size n = 256 requires a circuit depth of approximately
250. A total of 256 sequential additions are performed for the general multiplication,
resulting in a depth of 64000 (= 250 × 256). For the Montgomery reduction, one round
requires a full depth of approximately 7000 for a single lookup table in their depth-
optimized version (for n = 256 and w = 8). The expected depth over all rounds is 448000
(= 7000 × 2 × 32 rounds), even when excluding an uncontrolled addition. Thus, the full
depth of Montgomery multiplication is estimated as 1024000 (= (64000 + 448000) × 2),
since their estimation also includes the reverse operation7 (i.e., Mul + Mul†). However, a
full depth of 176579 for their Montgomery multiplication is reported in [HJN+20, Table 4].

6https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumEllipticCurves
7In our analysis, the estimation in Table 4 includes the reverse operation, although this point is not
clarified in [HJN+20].

## Page 16

16
New Quantum Circuits for ECDLP: Breaking Prime ECC in Minutes

Reimplementation of Controlled Addition
For controlled addition, the qubit-optimized
version of [HJN+20] uses a single control qubit. In contrast, the depth-optimized version
appears to parallelize the inner controlled operations by introducing an additional n qubits.
In our analysis, these qubits are not counted accurately due to the lower bound estimation
issue. Consequently, we reimplement the controlled addition using the correct number of
additional qubits.

Reimplementation of Multiplication
In our reimplementation, as noted in Section 4,
the general multiplication is implemented by a sequence of controlled additions, and the
Montgomery reduction is implemented using quantum lookup tables. The first lookup
writes the lookup value indexed by the address register (which is then added using an
uncontrolled addition), followed by the second lookup to uncompute the written data. For
the quantum lookup table, the method of Gidney [Gid19] is used, and we reimplement it
by following the source code provided in [HJN+20]. In the depth-optimized version, logical
AND and AND† [Sel13b, Jon13] are used for address comparison, and the data writing
step is implemented using fan-out with ancilla qubits.

Reimplementation of Inversion
Following the methodology of [HJN+20], we reimplement
the inversion. As described in Section 3.3.1, in their implementation, the first n iterations
of the inversion are executed unconditionally, while the remaining n iterations include a
check for whether v = 0 (serving as a flag; see Algorithm 2). If v = 0, the flag disables
the round operation. After the condition v = 0 is reached, a counter register operates in
counter mode8. It is implemented as a controlled in-place incrementer (i.e., x →x + 1) by
the flag. The counter register is used to correct the pseudo-inverse (corresponding to k in
Section 3.3.1).

Reimplementation of Point Addition
Using the reimplemented modules by us, we
reconstruct the point addition circuit shown in [HJN+20, Figure 9]. We replace the
modules affected by the lower bound estimation issue with our reimplementations.

4.1
Benchmarking

Throughout this paper, the reported results corresponding to [HJN+20] (Tables 1, 2, 3, 4,
and 5) are derived from our reimplementations. We adopt the same AND gates [JNRV19]
and Toffoli gate decomposition [AMM+13] used in our implementation (see Section 2.3).
As discussed in Section 4, the lower bound estimation issue appears not to be significant
for the qubit-optimized version in [HJN+20]. Nevertheless, we also reimplement this
version (although it is not described in detail here) for a strict comparison. Notably, the
required quantum resources for the qubit-optimized version are reduced even further in
our reimplementation.

5
Results

This section presents quantum resource estimates for solving the ECDLP using Shor’s
algorithm. Our quantum circuits up to point addition are implemented and validated using
the quantum programming framework ProjectQ [SHT18] with the ClassicalSimulator, and
the required quantum resources are estimated using the ResourceCounter. The overall
quantum attack costs, including Shor’s algorithm and physical costs, are then derived
theoretically.

8We refer the reader to [RNSL17, Figure 9], as the counter mode is not illustrated in [HJN+20, Figure 6].

## Page 17

H. Kim et al.
17

5.1
Resource Estimates for Shor’s Algorithm

Table 4: Comparison of the quantum resources required for Shor’s attack on elliptic curves.


Q opt.
1687438850472 (52%)
13600
2313358884
5916837636
80468991849600 (37%)
D opt.
1200251506536 (66%)
63987
775484244
2845358316
182065942565892 (−42%)
N/A: Results are not reported in [RNSL17].
✲: Improvement percentages are relative to the D opt. results in [HJN+20].

Table 4 shows the quantum resources required for Shor’s attack on ECDLP. For
a complete comparison, we also include the results of [RNSL17], in addition to those
of [HJN+20]. In Shor’s circuit (Figure 1), 2n+2 point additions are performed sequentially.
Thus, the performance of point addition determines the overall efficiency. We obtain FD-M
improvements of 37 −40% with our qubit-optimized version while using fewer quantum
gates (reductions of 52 −54%) compared to the previous best result, the depth-optimized
version of [HJN+20]. As can be expected from Section 3.4, our depth-optimized version
provides the lowest circuit depth and gate count, although it is not superior in terms of
the FD-M metric, offering an alternative option.

Windowing
As discussed in Section 3.5, the window size w determines a trade-off
between fewer point additions and additional Toffoli gates for quantum lookup tables
(in our implementation, Toffoli gates are replaced with AND gates). For example, with
w = 3, windowed point addition reduces the number of point additions to 2 · ⌈(n + 1)/3⌉,
and each point addition requires six lookup tables, incurring (22 −1) = 3 AND gates per
table. In this case, increasing w reduces the number of point additions more significantly
than it increases the lookup table cost. In our case, based on Tables 3 and 4, window
sizes of w = 11 −15 are optimal. Table 5 summarizes the quantum resources for Shor’s
algorithm with windowing using these window sizes. Compared to Shor’s attack without
windowing (Table 4), the required quantum resources are significantly reduced. When
comparing Tables 4 and 5 without and with windowing, respectively, we observe 80 −96%
improvements in terms of the FD-M metric for our results.

## Page 18

18
New Quantum Circuits for ECDLP: Breaking Prime ECC in Minutes

5.2
Fault-Tolerant Estimation: Runtime and Physical Qubits

In this section, we estimate the physical costs of fault-tolerant computation, including the
number of physical qubits and the runtime. Overall, our estimation follows the methodology
used in [ADMG+17]. We assume surface-code-based error correction, and T gate incurs a
high cost. In general, T gate on a surface code is implemented by magic state distillation
and we adopt the Reed-Muller 15-to-1 distillation method presented in [BK05]. We assume
several physical parameters; the state injection error rate is set to ein = 10−3, and the
physical error rate per gate, eg, is given by eg = ein/10.
Following Algorithm 4, we obtain two distillation layers with code distances {d1, d2} =
{13, 7} for ECC-224. The output error rate, eout, should satisfy eout < 1/Tc, where the
total numbers of T gates, Tc, is 3314203690 (qubit-optimized version, see Table 5).

Table 5: Comparison of the quantum resources required for Shor’s attack on elliptic curves
with windowing technique.

With two distillation layers, generating a single magic state requires 16 × 15 = 240
input states. These input states are encoded using a code distance d2 = 7, corresponding
to approximately 2.5 × 1.25 × d2
2 = 153.125 physical qubits per logical qubit. Consequently,
the total footprint of the distillation is 240 × 153.125 = 36750 physical qubits, and the
round of distillation completes in 10 · d2 = 70 surface code cycles. Similarly, the top
distillation layer requires approximately 8450 physical qubits and 130 surface code cycles
using a code distance d1 = 13. However, since the physical qubits of the bottom layer can
be reused in the top layer, the total number of physical qubits required for distillation is
36750. Therefore, 36750/8450 ≈4 magic states are produced in parallel.
A single magic state distillation requires 200 surface code cycles, assuming 1 microsecond
per cycle in our estimation. To generate the magic states for Tc = 3314203690, the estimated
time is (Tc/4)×200×1 microseconds (≈46 hours). The ratio between the required number
of T gates and the T-depth (based on Table 5) is Tc/Td ≈116. To obtain 116 magic states
within 200 surface code cycles, we require 116/4 ≈29 distillation factories operating in
parallel. This increases the number of physical qubits to 36750 × 29 = 1065750, while
reducing the distillation time to (Tc/116) × 200 × 1 microseconds ≈96 minutes.
We also estimate the physical overhead for Clifford gates in the surface code. For
ECC-224, the logical qubit count is 5717, and the total number of Clifford gates, Cg,

## Page 19

H. Kim et al.
19

is 9128571568. To compute the required code distance, we determine the smallest dc
satisfying
ein
0.0125
 dc+1

2
< 1/Cg. This yields dc = 18, thus, the physical qubit counts
required for Clifford gates is 5717 × 2.5 × 1.25 × d2
c ≈5788463.

Algorithm 4: Procedure for calculating the number of distillation layers and code distances (as
restated in [ADMG+17], based on [FDJ13]).

1: Input: ein, eg(= ein/10), eout(= 1/Tc), ε(= 1)
2: d ←empty list [ ], e ←eout, i ←0
3: repeat
4:
i ←i + 1, ei ←e

5:
Find minimum di such that 192di (100eg)
di+1

2
<
εei
1+ε
6:
e ←
3p

ei/(35(1 + ε))
7:
d.append(di)
8: until e > ein
9: Output: d = [d1, . . . , di]

The estimated physical costs of a quantum attack on ECC are summarized in Table 6.
For brevity, we omit detailed estimations for other parameters, and they are derived in the
same manner as for ECC-224. Breaking ECC-224 with Shor’s algorithm is estimated to
require ≈1.6 hours or ≈34 minutes, assuming that 6854213 or 19142629 physical qubits
are available. Overall, although the depth-optimized design takes less time, the qubit-
optimized design appears more practical for realizing quantum attacks, as it substantially
reduces the physical qubit overhead. For breaking ECC, our qubit-optimized design
requires ≈5.3 −19.9 million physical qubits and completes within 1.1 −9.5 hours.

Table 6: Estimated number of physical qubits and runtime for Shor’s algorithm on ECC.

5.3
NIST Post-Quantum Security

NIST established five security levels [NIS16, NIS22] with corresponding resource require-
ments to evaluate resilience against quantum attacks (based on logical estimation, not
fault-tolerant). Level 1 (corresponding to AES-128) requires that the product of the total
number of gates and the full depth (G-FD) exceeds 2157. However, as shown in Table 7
(derived from Table 5), the G-FD for breaking ECC is well below this threshold. This
indicates that prime elliptic curves do not achieve post-quantum security as defined by
NIST. In addition, NIST specifies criteria for quantum attacks in terms of the maximum
circuit depth, MAXDEPTH, which is defined by a lower bound of 240 and an upper bound
of 296. Notably, the FD required for breaking prime field ECC does not exceed the lower
bound.

## Page 20

20
New Quantum Circuits for ECDLP: Breaking Prime ECC in Minutes

Table 7: Quantum resources and post-quantum security for Shor’s algorithm on ECC.

5.4
Comparison with RSA

In this section, we compare the quantum complexity of breaking RSA [GE21, Gid25] and
ECC basd on our results. For a consistent comparison, we assume the same physical
parameters as in [Gid17, Gid25], with only the physical error rate per gate changed to
eg = 10−3 (instead of eg = 10−4 in Section 5.2). Note that the same calculation method
as in Section 5.2 is used for our results.
As summarized in Table 8, it takes more quantum resources to break RSA-2048 [GE21]
than to break ECC-224 (although both are at the same classical security level). Similar
trends have been reported in [RNSL17] and [JSB+25], showing that solving ECDLP
requires fewer quantum resources than RSA factoring (at equivalent classical security).
Very recently, Gidney [Gid25] significantly reduced the required number of physical
qubits for breaking RSA, at the cost of increased resources in other metrics such as Toffoli
count and runtime. Compared to [Gid25], our results require more physical qubits (Mp)
but achieve a shorter runtime (Dp) and a lower cost (Mp-Dp, the physical qubit and
runtime product).

Table 8: Comparison of approximated physical costs for breaking RSA and ECC.
Scheme
Source
#Toffoli
#Logical qubit #Physical qubit (Mp) Runtime (Dp) Cost (Mp-Dp)

6
Conclusion

As practical quantum computing continues to advance, a natural question emerges: How
difficult will it truly be to break elliptic curve cryptography? This paper humbly sheds
light to this question by presenting new results on the quantum cryptanalysis of elliptic
curves.
In this work, we significantly reduce the circuit depth required to break elliptic curves.
We reformulate Montgomery reduction, adopt QCSA and design a depth-efficient inversion
using a condition-independent round operation. Our point addition achieves the lowest
circuit depth compared to previous best results and improves the product of circuit depth
and qubit count by more than 37% −40%, with total gate count reductions of 52% −54%
(as shown in Tables 3 and 4).
Based on our quantum circuits, we estimate the quantum resources required to break
elliptic curves using Shor’s algorithm (Table 4, and including windowing in Table 5). These
results are analyzed with respect to NIST security levels and the MAXDEPTH constraint

## Page 21

H. Kim et al.
21

(Table 7). Further, to bridge the gap to practical scenarios (inspired from [GE21, Gid25]),
we evaluate our results at fault-tolerant level and provide corresponding physical resource
estimates, such as runtime and the number of physical qubits (see Table 6). Our results
show that elliptic curves can be broken in minutes to hours using 5.3 millions to 77.3
millions physical qubits.
For future work, extending our implementation techniques to other coordinate systems
(such as projective and Jacobian coordinates) remains an important direction. Another
promising target is Curve-25519 [Ber06] (recently explored in [HZH+25]), which is com-
monly represented in Montgomery or Edwards form and employs a different point addition
formulation. Furthermore, in Gidney’s recent work [Gid25], optimizations such as approxi-
mate residue arithmetic (based on [CFS25]), Ekerå-Håstad’s period finding [EH17], and
yoked surface codes [GNBJ25] further reduce quantum costs; and consequently adapting
these techniques to break elliptic curves will be interesting.

References

[ADMG+17] Matthew Amy, Olivia Di Matteo, Vlad Gheorghiu, Michele Mosca, Alex
Parent, and John Schanck. Estimating the cost of generic quantum pre-image
attacks on SHA-2 and SHA-3. In Roberto Avanzi and Howard Heys, editors,
Selected Areas in Cryptography – SAC 2016, pages 317–337, Cham, 2017.
Springer International Publishing. 18, 19

[AMM+13]
Matthew Amy, Dmitri Maslov, Michele Mosca, Martin Roetteler, and Martin
Roetteler. A meet-in-the-middle algorithm for fast synthesis of depth-optimal
quantum circuits. IEEE Transactions on Computer-Aided Design of Inte-
grated Circuits and Systems, 32(6):818–830, Jun 2013. 4, 5, 16

[BBvHL20]
Gustavo Banegas, Daniel J. Bernstein, Iggy van Hoof, and Tanja Lange.
Concrete quantum cryptanalysis of binary elliptic curves. IACR Transactions
on Cryptographic Hardware and Embedded Systems, 2021:451–472, 12 2020. 2

[Ber06]
Daniel J. Bernstein. Curve25519: New diffie-hellman speed records. In Public
Key Cryptography-PKC 2006: 9th International Conference on Theory and
Practice in Public-Key Cryptography, New York, NY, USA, April 24-26,
2006. Proceedings 9, pages 207–228. Springer, 2006. 21

[BK05]
Sergey Bravyi and Alexei Kitaev. Universal quantum computation with ideal
clifford gates and noisy ancillas. Physical Review A—Atomic, Molecular, and
Optical Physics, 71(2):022316, 2005. 18

[CFS25]
Clémence Chevignard, Pierre-Alain Fouque, and André Schrottenloher. Re-
ducing the number of qubits in quantum factoring. In Annual International
Cryptology Conference, pages 384–415. Springer, 2025. 21

[DKRS04]
Thomas G Draper, Samuel A Kutin, Eric M Rains, and Krysta M Svore. A
logarithmic-depth quantum carry-lookahead adder. arXiv preprint quant-
ph/0406142, 2004. 5, 8

[EH17]
Martin Ekerå and Johan Håstad. Quantum algorithms for computing short
discrete logarithms and factoring rsa integers. In Post-Quantum Cryptography:
8th International Workshop, PQCrypto 2017, Utrecht, The Netherlands, June
26-28, 2017, Proceedings 8, pages 347–363. Springer, 2017. 21

[Eke19]
Martin Ekerå. Revisiting shor’s quantum algorithm for computing general
discrete logarithms. arXiv preprint arXiv:1905.09084, 2019. 4

## Page 22

22
New Quantum Circuits for ECDLP: Breaking Prime ECC in Minutes

[FDJ13]
Austin G Fowler, Simon J Devitt, and Cody Jones. Surface code implemen-
tation of block code state distillation. Scientific reports, 3(1):1939, 2013.
19

[GE21]
Craig Gidney and Martin Ekerå. How to factor 2048 bit rsa integers in 8
hours using 20 million noisy qubits. Quantum, 5:433, 2021. 14, 20, 21

[Gid17]
Craig Gidney. Factoring with n+ 2 clean qubits and n-1 dirty qubits. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1706.07884, 2017. 20

[Gid18]
Craig Gidney. Halving the cost of quantum addition. Quantum, 2:74, 2018. 4

[Gid19]
Craig
Gidney.
Windowed
quantum
arithmetic.
arXiv
preprint
arXiv:1905.07682, 2019. 16

[Gid25]
Craig Gidney. How to factor 2048 bit rsa integers with less than a million
noisy qubits. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.15917, 2025. 20, 21

[GN96]
Robert B Griffiths and Chi-Sheng Niu. Semiclassical fourier transform for
quantum computation. Physical Review Letters, 76(17):3228, 1996. 4

[GNBJ25]
Craig Gidney, Michael Newman, Peter Brooks, and Cody Jones. Yoked
surface codes. Nature Communications, 16(1):4498, 2025. 21

[GRLR+23]
Élie Gouzien, Diego Ruiz, Francois-Marie Le Régent, Jérémie Guillaud, and
Nicolas Sangouard. Performance analysis of a repetition cat code architecture:
Computing 256-bit elliptic curve logarithm in 9 hours with 126 133 cat qubits.
Physical review letters, 131(4):040602, 2023. 2, 9

[HJN+20]
Thomas Häner, Samuel Jaques, Michael Naehrig, Martin Roetteler, and
Mathias Soeken. Improved quantum circuits for elliptic curve discrete log-
arithms. In Post-Quantum Cryptography: 11th International Conference,
PQCrypto 2020, Paris, France, April 15–17, 2020, Proceedings 11, pages
425–444. Springer, 2020. 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18

[HZH+25]
Yan Huang, Fangguo Zhang, Zhi Hu, Zijian Zhou, and Longjiang Qu. Im-
proved quantum circuits for elliptic curve discrete logarithm problems on
ed25519: Y. huang et al. Quantum Information Processing, 24(10):311, 2025.
2, 21

[Jaq23]
Samuel Jaques. The do’s and don’ts of quantum memory in cryptanalysis.
PhD thesis, University of Oxford, 2023. 15

[JBK+22]
Kyungbae Jang, Anubhab Baksi, Hyunji Kim, Gyeongju Song, Hwajeong Seo,
and Anupam Chattopadhyay. Quantum analysis of aes. Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Paper 2022/683, 2022. https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/683. 9

[JNRV19]
Samuel Jaques, Michael Naehrig, Martin Roetteler, and Fernando Virdia.
Implementing grover oracles for quantum key search on AES and LowMC.
Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2019/1146, 2019. https://eprint.iac
r.org/2019/1146. 4, 5, 9, 16

[Jon13]
Cody Jones. Low-overhead constructions for the fault-tolerant toffoli gate.
Physical Review A—Atomic, Molecular, and Optical Physics, 87(2):022328,
2013. 16

[JSB+25]
Kyungbae Jang, Vikas Srivastava, Anubhab Baksi, Santanu Sarkar, and
Hwajeong Seo. New quantum cryptanalysis of binary elliptic curves (extended
version). Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2025/017, 2025. 2, 20

## Page 23

H. Kim et al.
23

[Kal02]
Burton S Kaliski. The montgomery inverse and its applications. IEEE
transactions on computers, 44(8):1064–1065, 2002. 10

[KLJ+25]
Hyunjun Kim, Sejin Lim, Kyungbae Jang, Siyi Wang, Anubhab Baksi,
Anupam Chattopadhyay, and Hwajeong Seo. Tree-based quantum carry-save
adder. Cryptology ePrint Archive, 2025. 2, 6

[Kob87]
Neal Koblitz. Elliptic curve cryptosystems. Mathematics of computation,
48(177):203–209, 1987. 1

[LL25]
Haoyu Liao and Qingbin Luo. Quantum circuit synthesis for aes with low
dw-cost. In International Conference on the Theory and Application of
Cryptology and Information Security, pages 475–507. Springer, 2025. 9

[Mic20]
Microsoft. Q# Language Specification, 2020. 15

[NIS16]
NIST. Submission requirements and evaluation criteria for the post-quantum
cryptography standardization process, 2016. https://csrc.nist.gov/CS
RC/media/Projects/Post-Quantum-Cryptography/documents/call-for
-proposals-final-dec-2016.pdf. 19

[NIS22]
NIST. Call for additional digital signature schemes for the post-quantum
cryptography standardization process, 2022. https://csrc.nist.gov/cs
rc/media/Projects/pqc-dig-sig/documents/call-for-proposals-dig
-sig-sept-2022.pdf. 3, 19

[PZ03]
John Proos and Christof Zalka. Shor’s discrete logarithm quantum algorithm
for elliptic curves. arXiv preprint quant-ph/0301141, 2003. 2

[RNSL17]
Martin Roetteler, Michael Naehrig, Krysta M Svore, and Kristin Lauter.
Quantum resource estimates for computing elliptic curve discrete logarithms.
In Advances in Cryptology–ASIACRYPT 2017: 23rd International Conference
on the Theory and Applications of Cryptology and Information Security, Hong
Kong, China, December 3-7, 2017, Proceedings, Part II 23, pages 241–270.
Springer, 2017. 2, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 16, 17, 20

[RSA78]
Ronald L Rivest, Adi Shamir, and Leonard Adleman. A method for obtaining
digital signatures and public-key cryptosystems. Communications of the
ACM, 21(2):120–126, 1978. 1

[S+99]
Jerome A Solinas et al. Generalized mersenne numbers. Faculty of Mathe-
matics, University of Waterloo, 1999. 11

[Sel13a]
Peter Selinger.
Quantum circuits of t-depth one.
Physical Review A,
87(4):042302, 2013. 4

[Sel13b]
Peter Selinger. Quantum circuits of t-depth one. Physical Review A—Atomic,
Molecular, and Optical Physics, 87(4):042302, 2013. 16

[Sho94]
Peter W Shor. Algorithms for quantum computation: discrete logarithms
and factoring. In Proceedings 35th annual symposium on foundations of
computer science, pages 124–134. Ieee, 1994. 1, 3

[SHT18]
Damian S Steiger, Thomas Häner, and Matthias Troyer. Projectq: an open
source software framework for quantum computing. Quantum, 2:49, 2018.
15, 16

[TT23]
Ren Taguchi and Atsushi Takayasu. Concrete quantum cryptanalysis of
binary elliptic curves via addition chain. In Cryptographers’ Track at the
RSA Conference, pages 57–83. Springer, 2023. 2
